---
---
## Ø1" mirror mount assemblies

##### Objects needed

  - 2x Ø1" [Polaris
    K1](http://thorlabs.com/thorProduct.cfm?partNumber=POLARIS-K1)[H](http://thorlabs.com/thorProduct.cfm?partNumber=POLARIS-K1-H)
    mirror mounts with installed mirrors
  - 2x [5.5
    mm](http://openspim.org/File:Mirror_rail-carrier_stilt_5-5mm.PDF)
    stilts with a M4 thru hole through the middle of it's body
  - 2x M4x25 mm capscrews
  - 2x M4 nuts
  - 2x ThorLabs part \#:
    [SD1](http://www.thorlabs.de/thorProduct.cfm?partNumber=SD1) M4 to
    M6 adapter
  - 2x ThorLabs part \#:
    [RC1](http://www.thorlabs.de/thorProduct.cfm?partNumber=RC1) rail
    carrier

##### Tools needed

  - 1x needle nosed pliers
  - 1x 3 mm hex key/driver

##### How to assemble the 1" mirror mounts to their rail carriers

Put the M4x25 mm capscrew through a SD1 M4 to M6 adapter, then the
capscrew/adapter assembly through the bottom side of the RC1 rail
carrier. The 5.5 mm stilt then goes over and through the M4 thru hole,
so that there is about 3-5 mm of threading of the M4 capscrew poking
out. Set the base of the mirror on the stilt through the hole that will
put the horizontal adjustment screw on the left side of the assembly,
and screw a M4 nut over the remaining threading of the M4 capscrew. Grab
and hold the M4 nut with the needle nosed pliers and from the bottom of
the RC1 rail carrier use the 3 mm hex key/driver to screw the capscrew
tight. Further angular adjustments will need to be made to the position
of these assemblies when aligning the laser.

*Note: The video shows the use of Ø1/2" mirror mounts, the Madison
system uses them but the Dresden system uses the Ø1" mirror mounts. The
video was made in Madison during the construction of it's OpenSPIM*

![Assembly\_Small-Mirror-Mount\_to\_Rail-Carrier.ogv](Assembly_Small-Mirror-Mount_to_Rail-Carrier.ogv
"Assembly_Small-Mirror-Mount_to_Rail-Carrier.ogv")

## Ø1/2" spherical lens mount assemblies

##### Objects needed

  - 6x Ø1/2" optical mounts with installed optical components (2x *f\<*
    = 25 mm achromat, 2x *f* = 50 mm achromat, and 2x 1 mm ground glass
    alignment disk)
  - 6x [14.95
    mm](http://openspim.org/File:OpenSPIM_Stilt_1-2in-Lens.PDF) stilts
    with a M4 thru hole through the middle of it's body
  - 6x M4x25 mm capscrews
  - 6x ThorLabs part \#:
    [SD1](http://www.thorlabs.de/thorProduct.cfm?partNumber=SD1) - M4 to
    M6 adapter
  - 6x ThorLabs part \#:
    [RC1](http://www.thorlabs.de/thorProduct.cfm?partNumber=RC1) - rail
    carrier

##### Tools needed

  - 1x 3 mm hex key/driver

##### How to mount the spherical lenses on to their rail carriers

Put the M4x25 mm capscrew through a SD1 M4 to M6 adaptor, then the
capscrew/adaptor assembly through the bottom side of the RC1 rail
carrier. The 14.95 mm stilt then goes over and through the M4 thru hole,
so that there is about 5 mm of threading of the M4 capscrew poking out.
On the bottom/base of the lens mount is a threaded hole for M4 capscrew,
rotate the mount around until it is snug then give it a 1/4 turn to
tighten it with the 3 mm hex key/driver. Further angular adjustments
will need to be made to the position of these assemblies when aligning
the laser.

![Assembly\_Spherical-Lens-Mount\_to\_Rail-Carrier.ogv](Assembly_Spherical-Lens-Mount_to_Rail-Carrier.ogv
"Assembly_Spherical-Lens-Mount_to_Rail-Carrier.ogv")

## Vertical slit mechanism

##### Objects needed

  - 1x
    [VA100/M](http://www.thorlabs.de/thorProduct.cfm?partNumber=VA100/M)
    Vertical slit mechanism
  - 1x [13.17
    mm](http://openspim.org/File:Vertical-slit_rail-carrier_stilt_13-17mm.PDF)
    stilt with a M4 thru hole through the middle of it's body
  - 1x M4 x 22 mm capscrew (cut a few millimeters of threading off of a
    25 mm capscrew)
  - 1x ThorLabs part \#:
    [SD1](http://www.thorlabs.de/thorProduct.cfm?partNumber=SD1) M4 to
    M6 adapter
  - 1x ThorLabs part \#:
    [RC1](http://www.thorlabs.de/thorProduct.cfm?partNumber=RC1) rail
    carrier

##### Tools needed

  - 1x 3 mm hex key/driver

##### How to mount the vertical slit on to its rail carrier

Put the M4x22 mm capscrew through a SD1 M4 to M6 adapter, then the
capscrew/adapter assembly through the bottom side of the RC1 rail
carrier. The 13 mm stilt then goes over and through the M4 thru hole, so
that there is about 2 mm of threading of the M4 capscrew poking out. On
the bottom/base of the vertical slit mechanism is a threaded hole for M4
capscrew, rotate the mount around until it is snug then give it a 1/4
turn to tighten it with the 3 mm hex key/driver. Further angular
adjustments will need to be made to the position of this assembly when
aligning the laser.

![Assembly\_Vertical-Slit-Mount\_to\_Rail-Carrier.ogv](Assembly_Vertical-Slit-Mount_to_Rail-Carrier.ogv
"Assembly_Vertical-Slit-Mount_to_Rail-Carrier.ogv")

## [Next steps](Install_illumination_axis_on_the_optical_breadboard_-_Part_1 "wikilink")

Go back to [Step by step assembly](Step_by_step_assembly "wikilink")

[2](Category:Assembly "wikilink")
