### How to connect the camera, camera controller and computer together

#### Objects needed

  - 1x USB 3.0 Type A to B Cable (included in the camera package)
  - 1x Hamamatsu ORCA-FLASH4.0 AC power cable (included in the camera
    package)

#### Tools needed

none

#### Description

The Hamamatsu ORCA-Flash4.0 LT camera directly communicates with the
computer via USB 3.0. Connect the USB 3.0 Type B plug into the camera
and the Type A plug on the other end into the computer's Type A USB
jack.

### How to connect the USB hub, motor system and computer together

#### Objects needed

  - 1x USB hub with at least 5 positions
  - 4x USB Type A plug to Mini Type B plug cables

#### Tools needed

none

#### Description

Use the USB Type A plug to Type B plug and connect the Type B plug to
the USB hub, then plug the Type A plug into the computer. Plug all 4
Type A to Mini Type B plugs, with the Type A side, to the USB hub. The
other end of the cable can be inserted into the Mini Type B jack on the
motor system.

![Connecting\_the\_4d\_stage.ogv](Connecting_the_4d_stage.ogv
"Connecting_the_4d_stage.ogv")

### How to connect the laser and computer together

#### Objects needed

  - 1x UBB hub with at least 5 positions
  - 1x USB Type A plug to Type B plug cable

#### Tools needed

#### Description

Connect the D15 Interface Cable to the back of the Coherent CUBE laser
and fasten it with the two notched "thumb" screws finger tight. Three of
the four cables coming out of the D15 plug will be used: the power
cable, the control cable, and the serial cable. First, connect in the
power supply to the power cable via their respective two prong
connectors (making sure that you connect them together correctly with
the right orientation), connect the power supply to the mains lead using
the correct plug for your respective country. Then, connect the control
box to the control cable with it's five prong connectors (again making
sure the orientation is correct). Finally, connect the Keyspan Tripplite
USA-19-HS USB to Serial converter to the D9 RS232 connector. Using a a
Type A plug to Type B plug USB cable, connect the Type B jack into the
converters Type B jack. Then connect the Type A plug into the USB hub's
Type A jack.

![Connecting\_the\_laser\_to\_the\_computer.ogv](Connecting_the_laser_to_the_computer.ogv
"Connecting_the_laser_to_the_computer.ogv")

[Go back to Step by step assembly](Step_by_step_assembly "wikilink")

or

Continue on to learn how to [operate](Operation "wikilink") your new
system.

[7](Category:Assembly "wikilink")
