**Our first try: 3D Reconstraction of Drosophila Embryo.**

![Movie\_gif.ogv](Movie_gif.ogv "Movie_gif.ogv")

## Mouse Development

### Work plan during the course

1\) Samples of different sizes: 500(L)x300(R) um to 1(L)x0.7(R) cm
including- Mouse embryos at different developmental stages (E10.5,
E11.5, E12.5 & E13.5) & Brain, Lung & Heart of E18.5 embryo 2) A variety
of signal intensity (expression levels, stability, etc…) – Different
“labeling” patterns: membrane GFP in all tissues in the context of an
intact embryo or dissected embryonic organs, Cytoplasmic GFP in
scattered cells at different regions of the embryo & Cytoplasmic GFP
expressed exclusively in PGCs 3) Samples of different morphology:
opaque, transparent, branched, auto-fluorescent, etc…)

![A schematic work flow describing sample preparations and imaging them
with UltraMicroscope and Zeiss LZ.1](File.jpg
"A schematic work flow describing sample preparations and imaging them with UltraMicroscope and Zeiss LZ.1")

**Imaging Results during the course:**

Ultra microscope – Cleared E13.5 mouse embryo:

## Branching organs

"Goal": 3D Life imaging of the thick, uncleared embryonic tissue with
the light sheet microscopy.

Mouse embryonic kidneys at E11.5, E12 and E12.5 were imaged with Zeiss
Lightsheet Z.1. Light sheet microscopy provides a cellular resolution at
the organ scale. Green and red depict renal epithelium and mesenchyme.

![KidneyE12p5.ogv](KidneyE12p5.ogv "KidneyE12p5.ogv")

Optical sectioning of embryonic mouse kidney with OpenSPIM. Greyscale
depicts e-cadherin staining in the epithelium.

![Kidney\_slice.png](Kidney_slice.png "Kidney_slice.png")

Take home message: commercial and home build light sheet microscopes can
be used to image embryonic organ explants, however two photon and active
optics might be necessary to fight scattering.

## Investigation of 3d tissue growth using Light Sheet Microscopy

My aim was to use Light Sheet Microscopy to resolve the
three-dimensional structure of fixed tissues grown in transparent
straight sided pores of controlled shape. The transparent scaffolds have
two different circular pore sizes and are fabricated with the aid of
rapid-prototyping. Pre-osteoblast (MC3T3-E1) Cells were then seeded on
top of the scaffolds and cultured in a cell culture media for up to 28
days. The grown tissue has been fixed at certain time-points and, in
order to quantify the volumetric distribution of the tissue, the
scaffolds were mounted in a sample holder for subsequent visualization
with a Light Sheet Microscope.

Unfortunately, due to the scaffold design and limitations of the
objective lens, the conventional mounting technique using FEP-tubes or
agarose was not applicable. Therefor the sample has been mounted on a
[double-hook](User:Burri#Sample_holder_for_donut-shaped_samples "wikilink")
and imaged from multiple views. The obtained multiview images were then
reconstructed in Fiji.

Due to the large amount of data (approx. 100GB for 6 views) and the fact
that the scaffolds do not contain beads, reconstruction of the multiview
images in Fiji is complicated and still in progress\!

![Ultra\_Hook2.jpg](Ultra_Hook2.jpg "Ultra_Hook2.jpg")

Sketch of the mounting technique to image scaffolds in a Zeiss
Lightsheet.Z1. **Click to enlarge image.**

![Composite\_projections\_1.jpg](Composite_projections_1.jpg
"Composite_projections_1.jpg")

Tissue grown in a circular pore. The grey scale image shows the actin
signal throughout the scaffold. The pore size is 2mm. **Click to enlarge
image.**

![Tissue\_maximum\_projection\_2.jpg](Tissue_maximum_projection_2.jpg
"Tissue_maximum_projection_2.jpg")

Maximum projection of tissue grown in a circular pore obtained with
Zeiss Lightsheet.Z1 and a 5x objective lens. One can clearly see
cell-nuclei and actin-bundles. Actin fibres are depicted in green and
cell-nuclei in red. The pore size is 2mm. **Click to enlarge image.**

![Tissue\_Growth\_Movie.ogv](Tissue_Growth_Movie.ogv
"Tissue_Growth_Movie.ogv")

3D reconstruction of multiview images obtained with a Zeiss
Lightsheet.Z1 Microscope. The 3D image has been reconstructed in Fiji.
Cell-nuclei are depicted in blue and actin in magenta. Note that the
presented 3D reconstruction of the multiview images is still in
progress.

## Team members

<File:Vellutini.jpg>|[Bruno Vellutini](User:Vellutini "wikilink")
<File:Photo> RadaMassarwa.jpg|[Rada Massarwa](User:Rada "wikilink")
<File:SebastianEhrig.jpg>|[Sebastian Ehrig](User:Ehrig "wikilink")
<File:Menshykau.jpg>|[Dzianis Menshykau](User:Dzianis "wikilink")

## Local Guides

<File:Soroldoni.jpg>|[Daniele
Soroldoni](EMBO_2014_Daniele_Soroldoni "wikilink")
[File:Pietzsch.jpg|Tobias](File:Pietzsch.jpg%7CTobias) Pietzsch

[Category:EMBO2014](Category:EMBO2014 "wikilink")
